"Pre-Constructive Rules of Logic" are not always capable of reducing the
Structure choices of each wave to a single possiblity. Therefore, it is
likely several waves on your chart contain two or more Structure labels.
‘Studying each Position Indicator’s unique characteristics (described in this
section) and logically integrating that label's implications with surrounding
Structure should enable you to eliminate all but one label from each wave
segment.

Each Structure label in the listing to follow is separated by either a
dash ("=") or two plus signs ("++"). All Structure labels connected with a
dash are part of the same, Standard Elliott Wave pattern. If separated by
double plus signs, a completed Standard pattern occurred right before the
double plus signs and another Standard pattem begins right after the
second! set of double plus signs. The action isolated between the double
plus signs constitutes an "x-wave.” Explained in detail later, "x-waves"
connect multiple Standard Corrections to form one larger Complex
Correction (a Non-Standard formation). For a detailed explanation of
Standard and Non-Standard patterns, refer to Chapter 8

Under the sub-heading, "Position Indicator Definitions _ and
Sequences," are descriptions of all Positioned Structure Labels.
Knowledge of the characteristics of each Position Indicator is valuable
when attempting to reduce a monowave's listing t0 one possibility.
Acquaint yourself with these descriptions so you can quickly spot and
eliminate illogical Structure possibilities. Do_not eliminate positioned
Structure labels (which are connected to question marks"?") or base
Structure labels (which are the result of compaction) unless they are
within the confines ofa larger Compacted pattern.

If a Position Indicators definition does not allow you to reduce a
‘monowave's Structure list to a single possibility, below each label is a list
of acceptable “before and after" Structure labels which can be found in
partnership with the current label being analyzed, Tthe left-hand sequences
usually start with corrective variations (:3'5). The right-hand sequences
usually begin with Impulsive variations (:5's). The darkened, larger
positioned Structure label toward the middle of each sequence represents
mL. Taking note of the Structure choices surrounding m1 and comparing
them with allowable "before and after" possibilities on your chart, you
should be able to eliminate improper Structure labels forall current mis,
leaving just one Structure label per wave. Keep in mind, once a pattern is
compacted, its base Structure label (:3 or :5) instead of its positioned

ovo1es
