‘make the count finish the way you "believe" it should or to get the pattern
to complete sooner will almost always result in an incorrect interpretation,

Under the Wave Principle, extreme confidence in a change of price
direction is only possible as the market terminates the last wave segment.
The only way to stay on track between one important termination point
and the next isto do the following:

a. Mark the termination point of every single monowave on your chart
with a dot (this step can be eliminated as you become more
experienced).

b. Study the Retracement Rulles and then using the Pre-

Constructive Rules of Logic, carefully place the appropriate

Structure Labels) at each turning point.

Look for group Structure combinations among adjacent monowaves

which adhere to acceptable (Standard or Non-Standard) Elliott

Series.

4. Once a Series is identified, move to the appropriate section

(Impulsions or Corrections) of Chapter 5.

Proceed through all the Essential Rules which apply to that general

formation category.

f. Place Progress Labels on the wave pattern and continue through
the "Conditional Rules” section.

8 Check all the applicable Rules and guidelines (under Advanced
Progress Label Application & the Advanced Rules of Logic) to
confirm all minor details and subtleties of wave behavior are
present (Alternation, Fibonacci relationships, etc.).If it passes those
tests, go tothe next step

hh. Compact the pattem to its base structure,
Compaction, Chapter 7).

i, If you are working strictly with monowaves, raise the Complexity
Level of the Compacted pattern to Level-1 (underline the 5 or :3).
If you have developed beyond the monowave stage, raise the
Complexity of the Structure Label to the appropriate level based on
the techniques discussed in the "Complexity" section of Chapter 7.

J After Compaction and Complexity designation, the process begins
over again, Return to step-b to confirm if the newly compacted
pattern effects or changes any potential Structure Labels forthe
‘monowaves (or higher) surrounding the compacted pattern.* Then

"3" or "5" (see

000338
