imperative they possess some similarities of Price and/or Time (see "Rule
of Similarity and Balance"; Chapter 4, page 3). Ideally, a mixture of time
and price similarities is present in waves of the same Degree. Realistically,
when a same degree wave is not similar in price, the market will
compensate by closely matching (or exceeding) the time consumed by the
previous move. If time is not within the relational range indicated in the

Rule of Similarity..." section, then price will adjust for the deficiency by
closely matching (or exceeding) that of the previous wave. If neither the
time nor the price consumed by a wave falls within the "relational range"
of an adjacent wave, the two waves are almost surely not of the same
Degree.

‘Another method of detecting "same Degree” patterns involves
Complexity Level. For patterns to be considered the same Degree, they
‘must be of the same Complexity or of an adjacent complexity. [NOTE: an
extremely rare exception to this statement may take place between the
center portion of a Triple Combination Correction and one or both of the
x-waves which surround it.) This concept becomes very helpful as the
patterns being studied unfold beyond the 2nd or 3rd complexity level. It
will keep your patterns in proper relationship to each other and help avoid
incorrect integration of patterns.

To begin your application of Degree labels, itis suggested the Sub-
Minuette Title be used on the monowaves of your smallest chart (this
should have already been done in the Chapter 5). After moving to the
Compaction section, the Degree of the compacted pattern will be one
level above the Degree of the highest Degree labels used before
Compaction. This applies every time you compact a pattern. For example,
the first wave group you worked with (or are working with) should have
been composed of three or five Sub-Minuette monowaves. After a group is
compacted into a single Structure label, the pattern, as a whole, would be
elevated to Minuette Degree.

ovo27.
