Note: After Compaction, reassessment of that pattern’s base Structure
is required. Return to Chapter 3 and pretend the Compacted pattern is a
monowave. Apply the necessary Rules to detect the groups. intemal
Structure. If this produces a base Structure contrary to the pattern's nature
(Class), a "missing" wave may exist. Note that, then reassess the two
monowaves (or wave groups) on either side of the Compacted pattern.
Afterward, proceed to Chapter 4 and resume normal analysis protocol
(Warning: do not reassess patterns which exceed their own beginning; for
details seepage 3-68).

Regrouping

After Compaction, the wave group's base Structure (with the
assistance of Chapter 4) will be used to form larger Standard or Non-
Standard Structure Series’

For example: The group of monowaves in Figure 7-1 has already been
Structurally labeled. After making the proper observations and applying
the appropriate tests, you decide the Flat patter uncovered in Figure 7-1 is
legitimate; therefore, it is compacted to produce a base Structure of *:3."
‘When you return to Chapter 3, larger patterns may be formed by taking the
base Structure of that pattern and combining it with Structure labels of
surrounding patterns (which, themselves, may or may not have been
through the Compaction process). Before searching for a new Structure
Series, make sure there are at least five Structurally labeled wave segments
to analyze. After Compacting the Flat in Figure 7-1, only three Structure
Labels remained. Therefore, two additional monowaves were added to
Figure 7-2. In Figure 7-2, moving backward from the ":L5" at the top of
the wave group, only the compacted value of the recently found Flat
should be used as part of this new Structure Series.

Integration

Integration is a term used to describe the transference of shorter-term,
compacted wave Structure to longer-term charts allowing larger
formations to slowly be pieced together. For example, if every time a poly
‘wave pattern completed on a shorter-term chart you were to place that
pattern and its compacted Structure label on a slightly longer-term char,

ovo2s2
