learning curve by providing you with expert counseling on Wave analysis
until you become proficient at the process. Furthermore, applying the Pre-
Constructive Rules of Logic is a great way to learn of the numerous
observations and measurements required to properly dissect market action.

tis not recommended you begin your analytical "baptism of fire” by
constructing a highly detailed chart and attempting to analyze every wave.
Construct a short-term chart and begin with the current day, applying the
rules one wave at a time and updating your chart and analysis regularly
with daily data. This approach will allow careful consideration of each
Rule as it applies to specific situations. Applying the Pre-Constructive
Rules of Logic in this fashion should minimize the tedium of repetitious
application and the chances of analytical error possible when dealing with
stich extensive relational calculations.

WARNING: This section should NOT be read straight through.
‘The instructions which follow will only make sense, and be useful,
when applied in conjunction with real-time market action. If you
currently do not have a chart to analyze or this is your first time
reading this section, scan through it then proceed to and scan the
"Implementation of Position Indicators” (page 3-60).

Transformation of Rule Identifiers

‘The reliable application of Structure labels to replace Rule Identifiers
usually requires the study of price action before and after ml. If m1 is the
first monowave on your chart, there is no previous market action to help
you indirectly decide on the intemal Structure of m1. Therefore, simply
place the entire Structure list, which appears immediately to the right of
each new Rule section, atthe end of ths first monowave. For example, to
the right of Rule 1 (tum page to see listing) appears the Structure list
{:5/(c3/(x:c3)['SL3V('s5]}. If m1 is the first wave on your chart, place
that entite list at the end of m1.

Warning: Do not apply these Rules to Compacted patterns which
exceed their own beginning; retain only the pattern’s base Structure.
Refer to the top of page 3-68 for a full discussion of this concept.
Figure 3-36 on the same page illustrates this behavior. If conditions on
your chart are not anticipated under the appropriate Rule section, please
verify you are working with the correct Rule and then make sure you
reread the conditions necessary to activate that Rule. If m1 is a monowave

000100
