First, the supposed 2nd wave (Figure 12-0A) retraced more than
61.8% of wave-1, which indicates wave-1 is more likely corrective (:3)
than Impulsive (5). (Caveat itis acceptable for part of wave-2 to retrace
‘more than 61.8% of wave-1, but it is not acceptable for wave-2 to
terminate beyond the 61.8% level, which it did in the diagram. ]

Second, there is no alternation in time, price or structure between
waves 2 & 4 in Figure 12-50A. If there is not altemation of any sort
between waves 2 & 4, it does not matter what the pattern looks like; the
‘move is not Impulsive.

Third, attention to Fibonacci relationships could indicate the presumed
"3rd extension’ is only 161.8% or less of the presumed Ist wave. This, of
course, tells you "wave-3" is not the extension and the assumed Sth wave
should have been much larger.

If you witness a situation like the one shown in Figure 12-50A (and
described above), divide the longest wave the one that looks like wave-3)
in half and assume the halfway point is where a "missing" x-wave
occurred (Figure 12-50B). After the patter terminates, it should be
compacted t0 a":3."

Double & Triple Zigzags

‘The major difference between the Double Flat and the Double Zigzag
is wave-b in the first Zigzag will not retrace more than 61.8% of wave-a.
From an Emulation standpoint, this makes the Double Flat (missing the x-
wave) easier to detect since true 2nd-waves should not terminate ata point
that is more than a 61.8% retracement of wave-1. Similar to the Double
Flat, the lack of alternation between the assumed waves 2 & 4 would still
be present and may be the only early warning the move is actually
corrective, Attention to Fibonacci relationships may provide a clue if the
presumed "3rd extension" is only 161.8% or less of the presumed 1st
‘wave, This should not happen in a real Impulse patter unless the Sth wave
extends; from the diagram, that is clearly not the case. The next clue will
not come until much later when the market retraces the Double Zigzag by
more than 61.8% (implying the presumed “Impulse” pattern is actually
Comective)

To the inexperienced Elliotician, the Triple Zigzag or Combination
pattern will 1ook like an Impulse pattern. Triple Zigzags, with missing x-
‘waves, would not generally be a problem since Triples “emulate” Double

000479
