the triangle. Non-Limiting Triangles are-not bound to that Rule. For this
reason, a person trying to pick the end of the thrust, out of what is assumed
to be a b-wave or 4th-wave Triangle, may get caught ina persistent up or
down move if the Triangle actually was a Non-Limiting Triangle.

Al the above rules which apply to Limiting Triangles under each
specific category also apply to Non-Limiting Triangles of the same type.
For example, each leg in an Irregular Limiting would follow the same
rules as those outlined for Iregular Non-Limiting Triangles. There are
only a few additional behavior characteristics which need to be mentioned;
they are listed by Progress Labels.

Wave-a

In these patterns, wave-ais almost always the most violent segment of
the Triangle (Le,,it covers the most price distance inthe shortest period of
time). Usually, the a-wave will be the most violent market action to have
‘occurred for quite sometime. The reason for this appears to be that these
Triangles retrace Corrective pattems, not Impulsive pattems. A severe and
violent retracement of a Correction would be more acceptable and logical
than the same event after an Impulse pattern. If wave-a is violent, then
‘wave-b should break down into a much more complex and slower
developing wave

Wave-e

‘The last segment of a Non-Limiting Triangle, wave-e, has a strong
tendency to be a Non-Limiting Triangle itself. This creates a Triangle at
the end of a larger Triangle. That is the best way for the market to
Converge right into the apex ofthe larger Triangle's contracting trendlins.

Of the three types of Non-Limiting Triangles, the Horizontal is the
fone you will most often see in real-time market action. For a more
complete explanation of how Triangles should look and behave pre- and
post-thrust, refer to all sections that mention Triangles in Chapters 5 &
10.

NOTE: Any Non-Limiting Triangle (except when itis an x-wave) must
terminate a larger corrective phase. If you spot one in any position (other
than the x-wave position), you can compact the entire larger move into a
single 3.

000399
