Memorization

From the statements on the previous pages, it should be obvious that a
large amount of information needs to be memorized in order to hasten the
application of important Elliott Wave and Neely techniques to a price
series. This memorization is one of the major obstacles most students
encounter to successful application of the Wave Theory to real-time
action.

Frequent Indeterminacy

‘The price or time termination area of a trend is not predictable, with a
high degree of confidence, until an Elliott Wave pattern is on the verge of
completion. Sometimes, confidence is not obtainable until after a pattern
has completed. This fact keeps most of the public suspicious about the
Theory. Why? If you ask an Elliottician for his prediction of future market
activity before a pattern is near completion, the probabilities are high his
analysis will be wrong, atleast in detail. As the market approaches the end
of a move, the patter in progress begins to become clear. As it moves
away from the identified turning point of a previous pattem and moves
toward the middle of a new pattern, the number of possible patterns in
progress again increases. This is the reason experienced Elliott analysts
can disagree on the position of a market during certain time periods; each
is choosing what he or she considers to be the best scenario of the
interpretations possible.

‘When experts in the same field continuously disagree on the same
subject, that is the very foundation of controversy. In a latter chapter, a
whole new concept developed by the author, will be introduced to handle
these areas of "uncertainty" (see Expansion of Possibilities Page 12-43).

Difficulty

‘The extreme complexity, subtlety, and demanding nature of the Wave
‘Theory prevents most people from pursuing this area of analysis. Also,
‘most of the reasons listed throughout Chapter 1 prevent the Theory from
being completely computerized. Application of the Theory sometimes
demands forms of abstract thought, not a specialty of the computer realm.

000010
