‘under each heading is the one relationship which seems to normally
‘occur in the patter listed. If there is no relationship indicated, i is
because I have not been able to identify any present inthe ones that
were studied. Believe itor not, lack of Fibonacci relationships can
bea valuable test of the authenticity of an Expanding Triangle. It
is very difficult for five adjacent waves to form in such a way as
not to have any (or even only one) Fibonacci relationships. From
the information available, it seems correct to say if there is more
than one relationship present in a group of Expanding
monowaves (or higher), a pattern other than an Expanding
Triangle is probably taking place.

7. Expanding Triangles cannot take place immediately before any
powerful pattern such asa 1st, 3rd or Sth wave extension, or an
Elongated c-wave. They cannot terminate Double or
Combination Running Three Corrections. It also cannot be the b-
wave of a Zigzag, and will not likely occur as the x-wave of any
pattern.

8. In order to draw the trendlines to view the pattern correctly, the
typical b-d trendline should be employed, with the opposing
trendline always drawn across wave-a and wave-c.

I. Limiting

‘The Expanding Limiting Triangle can be in the 4th or b-wave position.

If it isa b-wave, it can only be part of a Flat. This Triangle as the b-wave
of a Zigzag, the x-wave of a Complex Correction, or the b-wave of a larger
Triangle appears to be impossible. OF the two Progress Label possibilities,
the b-wave Expanding Triangle seems to be far more common than the 4th
wave of the same makeup.

‘The Triangle's apex point, created by the diverging trendlines, occurs

backwards in time. Its position, in relation to the whole Triangle, is
important in the verification of i's Limiting status. This is how the
calculations should be done:

1. Measure the entire time duration ofthe Expanding Triangle from
the beginning of wave-a tothe end of wave-e.

2. Take 20% of that amount and add it to the end of wave-a going
backwards in time. Ifthe apex point occurs before that time period,

ovodos
