oxiona paral tines
offthehighstandlowest
price of the first
Imonowave ine 7009

End of wave, stan of wave-b

‘There are more variations on Flat patterns than any other Elliot
formation. To get a general idea of what type is taking place, the following
technique should be implemented. Draw two horizontal, parallel lines, one
off the highest point of the first monowave and the other off the lowest
point of the first monowave (see Figure 5-21). This will provide an
accurate measuring tool to detect the differences between one Flat
variation and another.

Beginning the observations, if wave-b breaks the horizontal tine
opposite its starting point, the market action indicates a “stronger than
normal" Flat is forming (refer to Strong B-Wave, below). If the b-wave
retraces between 81-100% of wave-a, refer to Normal B-Waves. If the
retracement of wave-a is between 61.8-80%, refer to Weak B-Waves.

Strong B-wave

Depending on the size of the b-wave in relation to wave-a, the c-wave
may or may not exceed the beginning of wave-b. If the b-wave falls
between 101-123.6% of wave-a, there still exists a relatively good chance
wave-c will completely retrace wave-b. If the b-wave falls within the
above range, the cwave is 100% or more of wave-b and wave-c is not
more than 161.8% of wave-a, the market is forming an Irregular
correction. If the c-wave is more than 161.8%of wave-a, designate the
pattern an Elongated Flat.

If the b-wave is more than 123.6% of wave-a, there is little chance
wave-c will retrace all of waveb. If it does, it will still be an Irregular
pattern. When the b-wave exceeds 138.2% of wave-a, there is no chance
the c-wave will retrace all of wave-b (the c-wave of a Triangle might, but
not the c-wave of a Flat). As long as part of wave-c falls within the range
of the horizontal parallel lines, but does not completely retrace wave-b, the
pattem should be considered an Irregular Failure. Ifthe c-wave does not
fall within the horizontal, parallel lines, the pattern should be considered a
Running Correction.

000202
