correlate the action to Standardized Eliott pattems, are you ready for thi
section on Advanced Progress Label Application. Progress labels are the
final check on a proposed wave count. To properly apply Progress Labels,
it is required you check through a sometimes lengthy list of essential and
subtle criteria, This list will solidify the proposed combination of Trending
and Corrective segments into larger, legitimate Eliot pattems.

Each Progress Label's innate characteristics allow the knowledgeable
Elliottician to finalize current market structure and forecast future activity.
‘They invoke form to a market's action and, due to their ordered occurrence
(Le, 12,3.45.a,b,0), provide a road map (albeit, sometimes rough) of
future market behavior. [If this subject is new to you, it should be obvious
why this area of the Theory could not be discussed until now, after an
understanding of each label's implications was presented to you.]

‘The next section is intended to help you accomplish the task of
transforming your char’s wave "Structure" into "Progress" labels. as
quickly and reliably as possible. A check list of attributes, which must be
considered every time you place a particular Progress Label on real-time
‘market action, is included in this next section. Each listing contains an
array of characteristics which describe the implications of each Progress
label on past and future market action. Try to understand the concepts
behind these listings; they are all based on logical induction and deduction.
Once the concepts are understood, it will be as if you had memorized this
entire section because you will be able to logically explain the interactions
of Elliot Wave price patterns,

‘Attempting what has never been attempted before, each Progress
Label has been listed under each type of Elliott pattern. It is through this
list that I hope to eliminate the belief in the investment world that Elliot
Wave Theory allows foo many possibilities and has too many exceptions
tobe viable, Actually, the reverse is true, but until now no source provided
you with this "process of elimination” information.

000363
