More on Degree

If you were to ask technicians their definition of Degree as it relates to
the financial or agricultural markets, most would probably use non-specific
descriptions such as. short-term, intermediate-term, and long-term.
Vaguely, they may describe how much time each Degree consumed (of
course, from their own perspective). What constitutes a long period of time
for some may be a short period of time for the more patient. This general
description of Degree leaves a lot to be desired by the demanding
technician and serious market student.

Precise rules are necessary to discem every aspect of market behavior
if you expect to make accurate predictions. Having specific criteria forthe
evaluation of different Degree levels also aids in the discussion of a
market, allowing you to speak about various types of price action with
‘others from a common vantage point. Knowing the relative Degree of a
pattern is essential to the proper application of numerous rules, the
integration of information from a shorter to longer-term chart and the
Compaction (discussed earlier) of a completed pattern into its base
Structure (:3 05).

Degree has been purposely skimmed over (until now) to prevent any
confusion. A good foundation of the more concrete concepts of the Elliott
Wave Theory is required to properly understand Degree. Degree is
important if you ate employing a combination of short, intermediate and
long-term charts, not when you are still learning to interpret and combine
‘monowaves into polywaves.

Degree Titling

Degree is a concept which must be considered when you combine
several (or more) Mono-, PolyMulti, or Macrowaves to form a larger
Impulsive or Corrective pattern. The realization of this process creates a
higher Degree Title for the combined group of waves as a singular entity.
In other words, when three or five segments are combined into one larger,
legitimate Elliott pattern, a pattern of one higherDegree is created.
Therefore, any visible subdivisions in a pattern are always at least of one

ovoz6s
