indications of Triangular formation (of one or two higher degrees).

Triangles

After years of experience with real-time market analysis and trading, it
‘was clear that Elliot’s rules concerning Triangles were not comprehensive
enough to describe all market consolidation phases which occurred
between converging trendlines. It became evident there needed to be a
subdivision of the two general Triangular categories (Contracting and
Expanding). The first sub-category I call Limiting Triangles. These make
up the well known types that Elliott described: bewaves and 4th-waves. As
their name implies, these Triangles have a limiting effect on post-
‘Triangular market action

‘The other Triangle sub-category I designated Non-Limiting. These
make up a relatively unknown type which occur in unusual places in a
wave sequence. Non-limiting Triangles impose only minor post market
action limitations. The formation of these Triangles is slightly different
from the Limiting type. Close attention to detail is necessary to properly
detect which type of Triangle is forming, Both types will be discussed
during the next few pages.

All of the rules which follow are in reference to ‘Triangles. Leaming to
decipher poly wave activity is at the root of the entire Theory, so most of
the rules were designed with poly waves in mind, but the rules can be
carried into the multi-and macrowave arenas.

Note: Under no circumstances is wave-d the largest wave of any
‘Triangle pattern. Under no circumstances can three legs (of the same
degree) within a Triangle be equal in price (give or take 5%). In
Expanding Triangles, only four of a possible five retracements (including
the pattern of the same degree just before the Triangle started) needs to be
100% or more; one of the five may not be completely retraced. Never can
any leg (other than wave-e) of a Contracting Triangle be, itself, a
Contracting Triangle. When mentioned in later text that an a, b, ¢, or de
wave can be any Corrective patter, it means any Corrective pattern except
a Triangle (unless otherwise mentioned).

Contracting Triangles

000389
