CLASS (Impulsive or Corrective), but their general appearance (shape).
Progress Labels

As you become more proficient at the basic labeling concepts
presented in this book, more advanced forms of labeling will eventually
need to be mastered. Progress Labels are a dramatic step for the beginner.
‘The complexity of this subject is such that a whole Chapter is devoted to it
later. A brief introduction follows to familiarize you with the concept, but
complete coverage is scheduled for later.

Progress Labels are an essential and critical part of testing a group of
waves for proper development. They direct the analyst "down a narrow
path," guiding him through certain conditions and observations which are
relevant to the current environment. Progress Labels provide order and
limits to a market's movement, allowing the skilled technician to finalize
his opinions and prepare strategies to take advantage of a move which
"should" take place in the future.

Unlike Structure labels (:3' and :5's), which represent the inherent
number of segments in a pattern, Progress Labels identify the position of
teach segment within a standardized pattern. The five segments in an
Impulse pattern are labeled as such: "1,2,34,5." Even though there are
generally only three segments to a correction, exceptions do occur. For this
reason, more than three labels are needed, at times, to describe all types of
Corrective behavior. The various segments of Corrective market action are
given the first three or more ofthe following leters:"a,b,c.¢,,x."

‘When referring to market action with the use of a Progress label, use
the word "wave" in front of it. For example, if you are discussing a move
‘which meets all the criteria and inherent characteristics of Progress label
"1," you should refer to that move as "wave 1." This may seem mundane
to experienced Eliottcians, but it may not be obvious to the beginner, so
is included for completeness.

In addition, to make things perfectly clear, each Progress label is
placed next tothe termination of the market action it represents. The labels
are placed in order from left to right as each segment unfolds. In other
words, wave-2 cannot be marked until wave-1 is completed.

Finally, keep in mind that Progress labels should not be implemented
tuntil_ you become familiar with numerous preliminary and secondary
procedures covered in this book. For this reason, the discussion and

000035
