observation. If the nature of the advance since the 1700s is to be
considered Impulsive, there must eventually be one advancing wave that is
substantially longer than the others, Resting solely on that fact, it is
imperative to assume the multi-century economic expansion, probably
beginning with the colonization of North America, has not ended.

2. The large middle section (second advance) of the last 200-year
advance (1860 to 1929) is Corrective in nature. Impulse pattems are
‘known for their acceleration phases. These usually occur toward the center
of the longest wave. It is immediately evident that the advance from 1860
to the high in 1929 does not exhibit any such acceleration phase toward its
center. Actually, the reverse is true; the second advance consolidates
toward its center (see Figure 2). This is basically impossible in an Impulse
pattern,

3. From 1940 to 1960, the U.S. experienced the largest, most
persistent, least retraced stock market advance in recorded history
(ee Figure 2). If a market starts to increase its rate of acceleration after
prolonged periods of slower action (relatively speaking), it is an excellent
indication that an Extended wave is getting underway. The strongest
argument for an extension beginning in 1949 is the gradually increasing
market volume over the last forty years as the market continues to make
new highs. Volume, as a rule, increases toward the center of an Extended
‘wave, especialy if that extension is a third wave.

4. A base trend line can aid in the identification of Corrective patterns of
the same degree (i.e, patterns within the same Elliott formation). When
employing this technique on the available data (see Figure 4), the tend
line runs across the low in 1860 and 1932. There is no doubt that a Flat
pattern (with a C-wave failure), starting in 1835, concluded at the low
in 1860. That Flat pattern contained the typical three segments common to
‘most corrections. The complexity of the Flat correction is far too great to
be directly relatable to the vitally vertical decline which started in 1929,
and finished in 1932. If the two points identified by the trend line are to
have any relation, the Corrective period after 1929 must have been more
complex and time consuming than is immediately apparent. During
Elliot's lifetime, he interpreted the price action from 1929 to about
1949 as a 21-year contraction phase (a Triangle, using Elliot's
terminology; see Figure 4). Once a 21-year Triangle is included in the

ovoas2
