A Unique Analytical Tool

Unlike most forms of technical analysis, the Wave Theory was
developed strictly from a price behavior standpoint, The Theory helps the
analyst realize that whatever the market does, it does for a reason. There is
no “chance” in market activity, no aberrations and no unclassifiable price
behavior.

‘A large portion of market technicians spend their time trying to
‘manipulate price data to find that "magical" key-indicator. How can a
transformation of price data be better than the original data? In other
words, price should be considered the ultimate indicator. It is the only
indicator of market action that can be absolutely depended on and the only
Cone that directly affects your bottom line. It does not make any difference
‘what someone thinks or what an indicator signals, the bottom line is, “what
did the market do?" If prices are going up (and you are long), you make
‘money. If prices are going down (and you are long) you lose money, all
other indicators notwithstanding.

‘Some of the remarkable aspects ofthe Elliott Wave Theory are:

1. Its adaptability to new technological developments and]
unexpected fundamental news;

2. Its thoroughness in describing ALL possible market behavior;
and

3,_Its progressive and dynamic characteristics.

‘The Theory inherently indicates man, and his markets, continually
charts new territory and types of behavior. It stipulates that at no point in
history is a market's action or psychological environment identical to any
other period. Similarities are allowed, but not exact duplication, This can
be a problem for traders, and especially "system" developers, who
endeavor to formulate strategies based on historic price action and
behavior. Unlike most systems and forms of analysis, the Wave Theory
‘wars the analyst to look for change and warns him when and where a
‘market will not behave as it has in the past.

‘The "Elliot’ point of view, that “history does not repeat exactly," is the
perfect explanation of why most mechanical systems (and other forms of
analysis based on the expectation of exact repet

000003
