center of ml is the least likely of the three choices under these
Circumstances. [The concept of "missing waves" is discussed in Chapter
12, page 12-34.] NOTE: The x-wave can occur in only one of the three
places mentioned. If the x-wave concept is used at one point, erase the
other two possibilities. These warnings will come in helpful as you group
‘monowaves together in Chapter 4 and as you finalize your interpretations
throughout the analysis process. The x-wave possibility makes use of the
"5" Structure label which should already be in place at the end of m1.

If m(-1) is longer than m0 and m0 is shorter than mi and m1, when
compared to m(-1) and m3, is not the shortest of the threeand m3 (plus
‘one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount of time (or less)
that it took to form, ml may be wave-3 of a Terminal Impulse pattern;
place ":c3" atthe end of m1.

Condition "b" — if m0 is at least 38.2%, but less than 61.8% of mt

Place a ":5" at the end of mi, if m4 does not exceed the end of m0, mt
may complete a Corrective pattern within a Complex formation where m2
is an x-wave; place ":s5" at the end of mi and "x:c32" at the end of m2.
Read through the rest of this section to see what other possibilities could
be unfolding.

If m0 is composed of more than three monowaves and ml retraces all
cof m0 in the same amount of time (oF less) that m0 took to form, m0 is
probably the end of an important Eliott pattern.

If m0 and m2 are approximately equal in price and time (or related by
61.8% in either case) and the monowave before m0 is 161.8% or longer
than m1 and if m3 (and any additional monowaves that are required)
achieves a price length longer than m(-1) within a time frame equal to or
less than m(-1), then a Running Correction (any variation) is probably
tunfolding; take note of that fact and add "[:c3]" after the" :5" already at the
end of m1. The Running correction would most likely start at the
beginning of m0 and conclude at the end of m2. When you begin grouping
your Structure labels in Chapter 4, work on the Running Correction as the
first possibility with the ":c3" either wave-b of a Running Correction or
wave-x of a Double Three Running Correction. Read the next paragraph to
be aware of any additional or unusual circumstances which could evolve
under these conditions.

If m0 and m2 are approximately equal in price and time and m3 is not
161.8% (or mote) of m1 and m3 (plus one time unit) is retraced
completely by m4 faster than m3 took to form, m1 may be part of a

000109
