Emulation

Emulation is a tough area. This phenomenon occurs when one pattern
(Comective or Impulsive) is mimicking the behavior of a pattern from the
‘opposite Class. This obviously can create problems with the analysis
process. The two redeeming aspects of this transgression is that it occurs
nly on short-term price action of polywave development and almost
always provides the astute analyst forewamning clues.

In the early stages of market development, the transition from
monowaves to polywaves is, on occasion, unstable. It is one of the few,
truly tricky periods you must leam to deal with. When one pattem
Emulates another, it generally indicates the pattern is "missing a wave."
‘You will have to ascertain when the market is or is not revealing all ofits
behavior to you. The phrase, “missing wave,” is used to describe unseen
‘market action. It is imperative you understand the missing wave concept
before continuing with this section (see "Missing Waves,” page 12-34).

Below are numerous patterns that, to the casual observer, would appear
to be another Elliot patter. Despite the missing waves which might occur
in these pattems, they still have their own recognizable shape and
behavior.

Double Failure

Unlike most other “emulations,” the Double Failure can only fool you
during its formation and for a short time period of time after itis complete.
Many of the other "emulations" can keep you off track for some time
unless you are closely watching market action, As you can see in Figure
12-48, the Double Failure can temporarily mislead you into the assumption
that a Triangle is forming. When the supposed d-wave exceeds the top of
‘wave-a, it indicates the correction is probably over and the market did not
forming a Triangle. A very minor clue that this pattern is taking place
during it formation would come from the application of Fibonacci
relationships. In a Triangle, the a & c wave usually relate by 61.8%,
Internally. In a Double Failure, the c-wave will usually fall ata specific
price level important to wave-a from an External standpoint (Figure 12-

000477
