previous page). Through the process of Compaction, Structure Series’ will
allow you to amalgamate many simple Elliott Wave patterns into more
complex patterns ina logical, natural fashion.

Figure 4-3 illustrates the Position Indicator sequencing and the exact,
number of ":3'" and ":5S" which must be present to create a Standard or
Non-Standard Elliott pattern. If some of the waves you are dealing with
are compacted and only possess their base Structure label, the compacted
pattern's base Structure can represent any legal Positioned Structure label
of the same Class (for a definition of “Class” refer to page 2-4). Any
pattern above monowave development must conform to one of the four
Standard Structure Series’ or one of the various varieties of Non-Standard
Series’. [Notice, in the last sentence only four Structure Series' were
‘mentioned. Eive Standard Structure Series’ are listed in Figure 4-3, but
only four of those Series’ are actually unique. The last Standard Series,
"132131333," is repeated and can be used to create two separate
patterns with vastly different implications. Depending on the shape of the
waves grouped (and other conditions introduced in Chapter 5), you will be
able to decide which of the two patterns is unfolding.) Figure 4-3
illustrates and names these combinations allowing you to further define
development on your chart. Notice, some Structure labels in Figure 4-3 do
not contain Position Indicators. When Position Indicators are not present
in this official listing, any Position Indicator "legally" allowed in front of
the Structure label in question could be used

‘When comparing the isolated wave groupings on your chart with those
in Figure 4-3, and your grouping is composed strictly of monowaves, one
of the "Standard Patterns” at the top portion of Figure 4-3 should be
appropriate. If you have already Compacted some previous price action
and an "x:c3" occurs anywhere in your isolated wave group, one of the
‘Non-Standard Patterns will ake effect,

No matter how large or time consuming, all grouped market action
pegged for analysis must match one of the Structure Series listed in Figure
4-3. Your goal is to find a Structure Series listed which mimics the one on
your chart. Ultimately, the identification of Structure Series' is paramount
in your search for larger, reliable wave patterns. Once a series has been
found, many additional tests (some covered immediately after this section
and some covered in Chapters 5-12) must be conducted to elevate your
‘monowave group to polywave statu.

ovo1e2
