OF all the wave pattems under Elliot’s Theory, the Expanding

‘Triangle creates the most treacherous trading environment. Much worse

than its non-trending mirror image (the Contracting Triangle), this pattern

continually creates the illusion the market is breaking out. This is quickly

‘met with a reversal and then the break of a support or resistance level on

the other side of the trading range. The phrase "whipsawed" was probably

created by a trader experiencing this formation.

To improperly diagnose this pattern can cause severe financial "pain.’
Unfortunately, there is no way to anticipate the formation of one of these
patterns. On the other hand, strict and proper application of all the rules
and techniques discussed in this book should keep you out of the market
since you will not be able to decipher what is taking place. Lack of a clear
patter formation isthe ultimate “no action” indicator.

From the very few Expanding Triangles I have witnessed over the
past eight years, a cleat, specific consensus of their nature has been
difficult to distill. Instead of listing their behavior on a wave-by-wave
basis under each variation, more general descriptions have been settled
upon.

Before moving on, the major formational parameters of all Expanding
Triangles need to be covered so you can check your wave group against
these “standard” guidelines to see if your assumption is on the right track.

1. Either wave-a or wave-b will be the smallest segment of the

Triangle.

2. The e-wave has a tendency to “blow off,” being much longer in
‘and time than the other waves.

3._ In the same way (and forthe same reasons) a Contracting Triangle
can occur as the e-wave of a larger Contracting Triangle, an
Expanding Triangle can take place as the e-wave of a larger
Expanding Triangle,

4, Asa general statement, watch for a progression from simple to
complex (on a time and subdivision scale) as each larger wave of
the Expanding Triangle unfolds.

5. The pattern after the Triangle (wave-c or wave-5) should not
Completely retrace the e-wave.

6. One of the strangest aspects of Expanding Triangles appears to be
their lack of numerous Fibonacci relationships typical of
Contracting Triangles. Generally, only one relationship can be
found, and you usually have to really search to find it. Included

000407
