Pattern Implications

Al Elliot patterns imply and transfer specific amounts of "Power" to
future market action. In addition, many require particular post-pattemn
behavior including the minimum price length the next pattern should
achieve and the minimum time it should consume.

The table below lists each Corrective pattern, along with its Power
rating. Power ratings indicate whether strength or weakness is inferred by
the pattern in question. Using a numerical scale from ~3 to +3, the lowest
rating belongs to market action which is very detrimental to upside price
potential. The +3 ranking is for patterns which are very beneficial to the
Continuation of a market advance. To decide on the subtle "Power"
differences between two corrections given the same rating, here is what
you do. When the rating is positive, the Correction listed farthest away
from neutral isthe stronger of the two. Ifthe rating is negative, the pattern
farthest away from neutral will be the weaker correction,

Retracement Based on Power Ratings

Having an idea of the "power" of a correction is extremely important in
the Logical integration process. It provides you with an accurate idea of
whether a Correction will, should, might, should not or will not get
completely retraced by the next move. Some corrections are so weak (or
strong) they cannot terminate a move. Any formation which concludes
upward and has a +1 to +3 rating should not be fully retraced by the next
pattern (of the same Degree). Caveat: It has been the author's experience
that the legs of Triangles and Terminals do not transfer implications to the
next leg (there is always one exception t0 every formational Rule). This
indicates if a Double Zigzag is an entire segment of a Triangle or
Terminal it might be retraced completely by the next leg "of the same
Degree." In addition, the next move may be simpler than the Double
Zigzag. As a result ofthis phenomenon, an important Rule can be derived.
If a pattern with a (+1, +2, +3)or(l, -2, -3) power rating is completely
retraced by a pattern with a Power Rating closer to zero but which is till
of the same Degree, the market is signaling a Triangle or Terminal pattern

ovosea
