B. The Sth wave or C-wave of a Terminal (diagonal triangle) pattern.
. A move which is or ends with a Contracting or Expanding Triangle,

Not mentioned until now, Triangles and Terminal pattems are the
exception to virtually all Rules, situations and conditions (i.e. time, price,
channeling, Progress Labels, Fibonacci relationships, etc.). Whenever an
important Rule gets broken, it is likely that a Triangle or a Terminal
pattern had something to do with it.

Ifa major Rule is not represented in the market action being observed,
the interpretation might still be acceptable as long as there is substantiation
for the failure of the Rule. Substantiation might come from one of the
conditions above (A, B, or C). The extreme importance of the Rules
discussed up to the "Breaking Point" headings in Chapter 5 precludes the
possibility that two important Rules be broken simultaneously. If more
than one important Rule is "broken'” the count should be eliminated.

ASPECT 2

Another aspect of the Exception Rule states:

"The failure of a Rule occurs for a specific reason; this reason
usually creates another Rule.” Below are two examples of how this
happens:

1. The 2-4 trendline of an Impulse wave should never be broken by
any part of wave-3 and hardly ever by any part of wave-5. Ifthe 2-4
trendline is broken by part of wave-S, this activates a Rule wl
says "the market must be forming a Terminal Impulse patter.” A
‘Terminal pattem isa legitimate reason forthe break of a true 2-4
trendline.

2. When the "thrust" out ofa Triangle does not stop advancing or
declining when the time zone occupied by the apex point of the
‘Triangle is reached, then the market is forming a Terminal pattern
or the previous Triangle was ofthe Non-Limiting type.

Necessity of Maintaining "Structure" Integrity
Structure isthe citical consideration in puting together a “Progress

Label" scenario, Only through strict attention to detail, and adherence to
past wave Structure, can you expect to accurately interpret a market with

000336
