Even if you had all of the qualities mentioned above, it could take
years of practice to confidently and accurately apply the Theory to real-
time. Since most people will net spend the time necessary to properly
learn the Theory, they misapply it and lose money in the market. This
creates disgruntled "ex-students” who, of course, blame their misfortune
(on the Theory, thus continuing the controversy.

Application Requires Time

Even if you have the mentality and the years of experience and
knowledge, you still must spend time analyzing everyday or so to stay in
practice and keep up with the current position of a market. If you are
following numerous markets, this alone can take several or more hours
everyday.

On many occasions, I have spent an entire weekend looking at one
market, sometimes just one chart, trying to figure a way to fit all the
important elements of a good count into the price patterns. Most people
‘want making money in the market (and all other endeavors) to be easy.
‘They work all day at another job, go out to eat, go to the movies, then right
before going to bed in the evening, spend 5 or 10 minutes on their charts to
“decide” what the market is going to do the next day.

This is just one of many reasons most people never make money
trading. If you are in the above mentioned category, you are competing
against a handful of devoted, full-time professionals who derive their
sustenance from profitable trading or investing, The chances of a part-
timer consistently winning against this group are small. f you are not able
to spend the time required to follow markets properly, itis recommended
you find a professional who can advise you on yout investments.

Endless Array of Specifics

To apply Elliot Wave properly under all citcumstances requires the
application of an almost endless array of specific criteria fiting particular
situations. Relationships, channeling, the significance of certain turning
points to the over all picture, Structure (Impulsive or Corrective and what
type of Impulsion and Correction) all need to be considered when piecing
together a patter’s count.

000009
