during the time they traded in one particular country (the U.S., London, or
Australia), the wave patterns were decipherable and followed typical
Elliott pattems. Another approach was to equally space the price action of
a 24-hour market among the number of markets in which the product is
traded and plot that action in a continuous string. Another way is to
separate the world into time zones of equal amounts and place the price
action of the important world market that falls into that time zone on the
chart in a continuous chain of events. The wave patterns under both of the
last two approaches tended not to conform to normal Elliott patterns and
‘were quite often indecipherable. The only approach I have not
experimented with, that may work, is Keeping track of an entire high/low
range for all the world markets per every 24-hour time period. The easiest
way to do that would be to use the close of the market in your country as
the close of each 24-hour period. The minute your country’s market closes,
the next trading day begins. Just like the other markets which have a
high/low range, instead of just one price per day, you could average the
range of the 24-hour time period or plot the high/low in order (in this
situation that might be difficult information to obtain).

Conclusion: From the above experiments, it was proven that each
‘market should be followed in one country only! Most people involved in a
market get in and out of their positions using the same exchange; this
Creates multiple closed-loop trading environments for each exchange (and
country). In essence, each market, despite its similar name to another
‘market traded in another country, is trading on its own intermal perception
of the technical and fundamental factors which affect that market in the
country of origin, This indicates that as each trading day passes, each
country is basically reliving the same market conditions experienced by all
the others during their trading day (with minor variations, of course). After
a period of time has passed, the technical and fundamental conditions will
exert themselves in such a way that each market is poised to make a
significant move in unison with all the others. Under these conditions, it
takes only one market to "start the ball rolling” and the rest follow suit as
they open.

To get to the root of the problem, this is how 24-hour markets should
be handled. Keep cash charts on the market you follow, but only during
the trading time of your particular country. If it is a very thinly traded
vehicle in your country, you may want to follow the cash price in a
Country where the currency or commodity is more heavily traded and

ovoose
