and you still find there are no stipulations for the conditions on your chart,
tse the entire Structure list next to the Rule heading of each section. If ml
is a compacted polywave (or higher) pattem and you, again, find no
stipulations for the conditions on your chart, move on to the section
entitled "Implementation of Position Indicators" (page 3-60) and use
surrounding Structure labels to decide which Position Indicator if any
belongs in front of mi’s compacted Structure label (i., in front of ":3"

“S").

Remember, all time and price calculations should be made from
termination points (the dots used earlier to identify the end of each wave);
this applies whether working with monowaves or compacted wave groups.
If measurement is required to test the validity of a statement and the
statement does not specifically mention whether to measure price or time,
price is always implied. Furthermore, do not take these relationships so
seriously that you eliminate a possibility just because a particular wave
‘was 60% of mi when it was supposed to be" atleast 61.8% of m1.” All
specific ratios mentioned in this text (such as 61.8%, 161.8%, etc.) must be
given a slight range of error. When two patterns relate by 61.8%, that
‘means the smaller of the two may be anywhere from approximately 58%
to 66% of the larger wave. This provides about four (4) percent leeway
either side of an ideal Fibonacci relationship. Finally, the phrase "almost"
and "close to” used throughout this section translate to "within 10% of the
ratio mentioned.’

For the same reasons that relationships between waves cannot always
be expected to behave perfectly, when following the guidelines listed
this section, if all conditions except one are scrupulously adhered to (and
the one which is not followed is off by just a little), you should probably
assume the rules were correctly followed and place the suggested Structure
label or list at the end of mi. This is all part of the Exception Rule
discussed in Chapter 9, page 7.

(On the other hand, time calculations which involve retracement of
previous patterns must be taken precisely as written, For example, many
times throughout this section you will find something like this; "if mL
(plus one time unit) is retraced completely in the same amount of time that
it took to form (or less),” that statement must be taken literally. In
case, you would add one standard time unit (the time consumed from one
data point to the next) to the number of time units consumed by mt, then
Compare that larger amount to the number of time units taken by m2 to

ovo102
