Chart Preparation and Data Management

On your initial exposure to this material, you may simply want to
follow the illustrations in the book. After reviewing this section, it is
recommended you construct your own real time charts as directed.

‘The first step in making a chart isto pick a market you wish to analyze
and then decide on a starting point for your observations. Without a
specific starting point, none of the techniques to be described in this
chapter will make any sense. Here is what you do: plot a year of data
consisting solely of the highest and lowest price of each month in their
order of occurrence (using the techniques described earlier under "What
Data Should Be Used To Analyze Waves, "page 2-6 and "How Do You
Plot Data, “page 2-11), then look over that wave chart and locate the
monthly monowave which is closest to the center of the entire price range
(high to low). [You want a starting point which is not of historical
significance. Why? Major turning points are more difficult to work with
under Elliott since they are generally associated with abnormal behavior.
For our purposes we need to make things as simple as possible.) Next,
ascertain a date which falls around the price center of that middle, monthly
monowave.

Once a date has been established, begin constructing your first daily
‘wave chart (in the proper manner) using approximately 60 cash data points
covering about 8 inches of horizontal space on a sheet of graph paper. On
this scale, monowaves should be relatively easy to identify. After
Constructing your first chart, pick the earliest important high or low that
‘occurred (see Figure 3-1), From that point you want to draw second chart
that doubles the detail of the first one (Figure 3-2a starts from the
important low marked in Figure 3-1; its time scale has been enlarged to
allow for close scrutiny of monowaves). In other words, the same 8 inches
of horizontal space used for the first chart will, on the second chart, cover
only half as much time as the first and employ approximately 30 data
points.

Figure 3-1

ov00s2
