Terminal Activity

‘When using trendlines, the detection of Terminal Impulse activity is
very similar to that used in the detection of Triangular behavior. Figure 12-
10, Diagram A, shows what usually happens when a Terminal is forming,
Observe the break of the 2-4 trendline and notice how the market reacted
to it. That is a perfect example of a "non-eventful” trendline break. Notice
in this example which wave subdivided, not wave-(3), the extension, but
wave-(5) which was the Terminal pattern, This is an example of the
Independence (see Rule page 9-7) of the Subdivision Rule from the
Extension Rule. The Extended (3)rd-wave is marked with an "x"; the
subdivided (5)th-wave is marked with an

During the formation of a Terminal patter, part of it will usually break
the larger 2-4 trendline, To get only the structure of a Terminal pattem
without the early warning of a temporary 2-4 break is rare, but not
impossible (see Figure B, 12-10)

Important: The Wave Theory does allow you to speculate when a
particular formation (trend) has completed, but the necessary reaction to
that formation is quintessential in the verification of your assumptions. In
Figure 12-10, the action after wave-(5) must return to the low of wave-(4)
to confirm the analysis; if that does not happen, the interpretation is wrong.
Note: In Figure 12-10, wave-4) is the minimum target for the drop, 99%
of the time it would return to the beginning of wave-(I) or lower.

Real 2-4 Trendline

‘When the Sth-wave of an Impulse pattern has completed, a correctly
drawn 2-4 trendline must be broken shortly afterward, "Shortly" is a
‘market defined relative term. To ascertain what relative means to a wave
pattern you need to check the time consumed by the 5th wave. If the break
from the termination of the Sth wave to the 2-4 trendline takes an equal
amount of time or less than that consumed by waveS, the break adheres to
normal behavior thereby confirming wave-S's conclusion. If the break
takes more time than wave-5, you must assume wave-5 is developing into
a Terminal pattern or the 2-4 trendline is incorrectly drawn and wave-4 is
not finished. Maybe your entire interpretation is incorrect. Whatever the
circumstances, the market has not completed an Impulse sequence (Figure

000423
