to manifest itself, Since Cash markets always involve more participation
by the public (through direct buying and consumption, as is the case with
commodities) than Futures markets, wave formations always tend to be
more standardized and predictable when cash data is used. In constructing
your data series, use cash data whenever possible.

Now, we need to deal with another matter which has to be broken up
into three different discussions. As mentioned earlier, proper analysis
requires only one price data point occur per predetermined time period.
How is this data obtained or decided upon? The next three numerical
divisions discuss that problem:

1. For most Cash markets, there is no decision to be made; only a
single price quote per day is available. When only one data point per day is
available, you simply plot that data over a predetermined, consistent
horizontal distance ("base” time unit) which represents one full trading
day. Each new data point will be plotted an equal distance from the next
(this always applies no matter what time frame is covered on the chart).

2. It becomes more difficult to deal with a Cash market which has
data available continuously all day (such as the S&P 500, NYSE, MAXI,
Value Line, etc). First, you need to decide which minimum time frame
you plan on following. The shorter the time frame, the more sophisticated
the equipment and/or software necessary to track the data and the more
charts which will need plotting and deciphering. Following shorter and
shorter time frames for trading requites you have a progressively greater
understanding of the Wave Theory and a “warehouse” of memorized
information at your disposal. The shorter the time frame followed, the
greater the likelihood one of the many important, but subtle factors
necessary for proper Wave analysis will be overlooked in the rush and
excitement ofthe trading day. We could call this the "Elliot time crunch;
everyone is subject (0 it, some more than others. Guard yourself against
the danger of trying to trade with the Theory over shorter periods of time
than can possibly be handled. If you do not, adverse and unexpected
market action will cure you ofthe habit.

‘The greatest benefit of following a market on a short-term time frame
(if you are holding positions overnight) is it increases your ability to
determine when a pattern has completed. Personally, I usually employ the
Intraday market action as part of my charting arsenal only when I am
looking for a low risk entry and price patterns indicate the end of a
campaign is approaching.

ovooa2
