wave-1 will not subdivide, it just means it will not be the subdi
of the group. In other words, wave-3 or 5 will be more subdivided.

led wave

Wave-2

If wave-1 turns out to be (or is believed to be) the longest wave in the
sequence, the second wave cannot retrace much more than 3 8.2% of the
first wave. If the first wave is.not the longest wave, the lowest point of
wave-2 can retrace as much as 99% of wave-1. If wave-I isa poly wave or
higher, the 2-wave must subdivide into a polywave or higher pattem. If
the 2-wave subsivides and wave-a (in wave-2) retraces more than 61.8%
of wave-1, the entire correction will inevitably tum out to be Double
Failure or a C-Failure, with the C-failure occurring at a point 61.8% or
less of wave-1.

Wave-3 Extended

‘This is the most likely wave in a sequence to extend. If wave-(3) is
also the subdivided wave, the strongest tendency is for the 3rd wave of
wave-(3) to also extend. To get a 3rd wave extension immediately after
wave-2 completes, without forming a smaller 2nd wave on the same chart,
the 2nd wave should be of Power level 1 (+ or -) or higher. If the 3rd wave
is a polywave, consecutively smaller 2nd-waves (before the explosive "3
of 3" move) will be similar in construction. Under those specific
conditions, it is mandatory that the smaller 2-waves take less time, less
price and retrace less (as a percentage of wave-1) than the larger 2-waves.
‘Also, the larger 0-2 trendline should not be broken by the smaller 2-wave
correction. Always be aware that wave-5 can Fail if the 3rd wave extends.

Wave-3 Non-extended

‘When wave-3 is not the longest ofthe three thrust waves, either wave-
1 or wave-5 will be shorter in price than wave-3. If wave-3 is shorter than
wave-1, then wave-1 will be the extended wave and waveS will be shorter
than wave-3. If wave-5 extended, wave-1 would be shorter than wave-3.
‘When the first wave extends, wave-3 should complete no further away
than 61.8% above (or below if the market is trending down) from the end
of wave-l

000365
