II. Non-Limiting (pecitic)

‘There is very litle difference between Contracting Non-Limiting and
Contracting Limiting Triangles. All of the rules covered above should
apply, except for the following subtle differences that set the two patterns
apart. This listing is completely original, developed by the author after
years of observing and carefully quantifying triangular behavior.

1. Channeling a Non-Limiting Triangle will behave slightly different
around the converging trendlines than a Limiting Triangle. The
behavior occurs in one of three variations, all of which are noticeably
different from Limiting action:

a. The most common and distinguishing Non-Limiting action is
Congestion right into, or very near the apex point of the converging
trendlines. "Right into, or very near is quantified by the following
calculation, Measure the time consumed by the triangle from its
beginning to the end of wave-e. If the converging trendlines occur
before 20% of that time (added to the end of wavee) has elapsed,
that defines the above quoted statement.
. Measuring the time distance from the beginning of the Triangle
to the end of wave-e ifthe apex point of the converging trendines
occurs after 40% of that time has elapsed, it should, again, be
considered a Non-Limiting Triangle. This is harder to anticipate
since the Triangle formation is not quite as obvious.
The last way a Non-Limiting Triangle can signal its existence is
by a post-thrust correction into the apex’s time zone of the
converging trendlines. In a Limiting Triangle, the time zoneoccupied
by the apex point is where the “thrust” generally concludes® (unless
the thrust forms into a Terminal pattern). The most common way for
a Correction to retrace into the apex point of the recent Triangle is
for the thrust, out of the Triangle, to be very violent, reaching its
initial price length (based on the widest wave of the Triangle) well
before the apex time period occurs. This allows the market to correct
back into the time period of the apex point until time “runs out”
during the apex time zone,
If any one of the above three situations arises toward the end of, or
immediately after, the formation of a Triangle, the Triangle should be

000220
