Retracement Rules

WARNING: This section is_not intended to be read straight
through. If this is your first reading, skim through to grasp the
general ideas, but do not spend much time on the details. The next
time you read this section, have your own chart handy and ready for
analysis.

‘Once you have finalized the terminal points ofall monowaves on your
chart, you are ready to identify the specific Retracement Rule which
accurately describes the behavior of surrounding monowaves. [NOTE:
Your chart should never be so complicated that this process involves the
identification of more than 20 monowaves at any one time. For the best
results (and the maintenance of your sanity), itis recommended you apply
the Rules in Chapter 3 to just a few monowaves of real-time action each
day.)

To begin this process, pick the earliest monowave on your chart which
you wish to analyze, That monowave, as described earlier, should mentally
bbe considered m1 (monowave-1). Applying the Rules of Observation
discussed earlier (see page 3-14), measure the retracement of m1 by m2 in
percentage terms using the terminal points (dots) of each. ‘These
measurements can be made accurately and swiftly with the aid of a
proportional divider set to a 61.8% ratio. Proportional dividers are
available from most engineering supply stores and are_highly
recommended for the purposes of this section. If you are performing this
procedure more precisely (and tediously) with the aid of an electronic
calculator, measure the vertical price coverage of m2 and divide it by the
vertical price coverage of m1. Multiply the result by 100. The number
remaining is the relationship of m2 to mi in percentage terms.

Refer to the table at the top of the next page (titled RULE
IDENTIFICATION); in that listing, locate the relationship just calculated.
That listing provides you with a Rule Identifier which represents particular
characteristics of current market behavior. Next, move forward to the
heading which matches your findings (i.e, Rule 1, Rule 2, etc). Further
Clarification of the market environment is obtained by calculating the
mO/m1 ratio. Measure the price coverage of m0, divide it by mi’s price
coverage and multiply the result by 100. Locate that percentage

ovoos2
