example, if you examined Figure la under a microscope, the long center
segment would break down into a pattern which might closely represent
the appearance of the entire diagram.

With the introduction of Chaos, science is now able to explain what has,
heretofore, been considered random behavior. The numerous similarities
between the Wave Theory and Chaos science further validates the
applicability of the Wave Theory to the once-thought "random" action of
stock and commodity prices.

PRICE ACTION LIMITATIONS

Elliott Wave price patterns force the analyst into specific conclusions.
‘The conclusions are not based on emotion or opinion, but are forced upon
the analyst through objective and detailed study. Predictions are derived
from the highest probability outcome founded on historical precedent.
‘When applied correctly, the Theory can help the analyst produce shortand
long-term forecasts which are, occasionally, pinpoint accurate.

‘THE ANALYSIS: Implications of the Long-Term Data

‘A quick overview of the long-term price activity (Figure 2) immediately
brings to bear one important fact. The start of the advance, which has been
in progress for at least 200 years, cannot be coincident with the beginning
of the currently available long-term data series. Remember, the Wave
‘Theory is a natural law of progression. Its reflections of societal
development are present whether someone is around to register them or
not. It is only logical to assume that the recording of data would not
necessarily coincide with the advent of a multi-century advance.

DETERMINING AN HISTORICAL LOW FOR THE LONG-TERM
DATA SERIES

‘The data we are working with starts in 1789. Obviously, this country was
Inhabited and growing before that time, so there was economic activity
taking place, albeit unrecorded. A quick glance at the start of the data
series reveals that the price action was initially drifting sideways for
several decades. This i not the way a trend (Impulsive action) begins. The

000490
