‘When you pick a particular price and time scale to plot a market, you
are also simultaneously deciding which Elliott Wave pattems will be
visible and which will not. In other words, each pattern develops based on
its own, unique price/time scale. To detect and analyze a particular Elliott
‘Wave pattern, your chart must possess the correct proportions. The proper
proportionality of market action is predicated on the pattem developing.
Adherence to the Rule of Proportion is essential to the accurate application
of the Rule of Neutrality (covered after this section) and to the
standardized look of price patterns.

‘The reason no single time scale will work for all analytical purposes is
due to the flexible nature of time. Just as Einstein's Theory of Relativity
revealed, time is not absolute, but variable. In Einstein's Theory, time was
dependent on the velocity of the observer. Under Elliott Wave Theory (as
it relates to market action), time is dependent on mass psychology. Due to
psychological influences, time expands and contracts as the financial and
economic hopes and fears of the masses are recorded through buying and
selling on an exchange floor. The reason no single price scale will work
for all purposes is due to the dynamic and fractal basis of price action
under the Wave Theory. Price patterns develop simultaneously on all
dimensions large and small

Before we can discuss the proportions of an ideal Elliott Wave chart,
we must define the two ways price action progresses through time;
Directionally and Non-Directionally (this is not to be confused with
Impulsive and Corrective activity). Just like all Elliott patterns, if
Directional or Non-Directional action begins at alow, it will complete at a
high and vice versa. Directional action is always composed of a series of
‘monowaves which, on the average and as a whole, create an increase or
decrease in a market's value (see Figure 3-3 below). As a general rule, the
first monowave of a Directional period is retraced no more than 61.8%.
Directional action usually terminates when a monowave, traveling in the
direction of the Central Oscillation tine, is retraced more than 100%. Non=
Directional action is composed of a series of monowaves which, on the
average and as a whole, create stagnation of a market's value (see Figure
3-4), The first monowave of a Non-Directional period is always retraced
‘more than 61.8%, Furthermore, all phases (with the occasional exception
of one phase) of Non-Directional action must be retraced at least 61.8%.
Non-Directional action usually terminates when price action moves
beyond the range of the entire Non-Directional period by a factor of

0000s
