Complexity Rule

This Rule, another tool developed by the author, provides a standard
for the categorization of subdivisions within a pattern. It assists
combining large scale patterns and in deciding the relativeDegree Title of
a segment. As patterns get larger and more time consuming, it can be
dificult to know which pattems can and cannot be combined with others
to form larger ones (a function of Degree). Basically, all analysis begins
with the combining of monowaves into polywaves, those poly waves into
multiwaves, etc. As you progress, each pattern (visually and structurally)
gets more difficult to manage if you do not keep track of the Complexity
level of each patter, before and after Compaction.

‘Complexity is not an important concept to understand when you are
just beginning your studies of the Elliott Wave Theory, but it will become
increasingly important as you begin to chart and keep track of long-term
wave patterns, Complexity identification plays an important role in the
detection of large scale pattems of the same Degree. Generally, patterns
only of the same or of an adjacent Complexity Level can be considered the
same Degree (Degree is explained in greater detail later in this Chapter).

In the early stages of market development, the Complexity Level of a
pattern is relatively easy to ascertain. It is a direct product of the number of
subdivisions visible in a price move. A single monowave has a Complexity
Level of "0" (See Figure 7-3). Arranging three or five monowaves into a
polywave constitutes the development of a pattern from its base level of
Complexity to Level-1 (see Figure 7-5a). Level-2 is the point where one of
the Trending patterns in a polywave noticeably divides into a smaller
Impulse sequence, turning the polywave into a multiwave.

‘The detection of Complexity Level-3 (and higher) patterns is not quite
so obvious. A larger pattern’s Complexity Level is almost solely dependent
upon the Complexity of smaller Impulse segments within the pattern, The
‘Complexity identification” techniques will keep you on track when
attempting to combine patterns of extended price and time characteristics.
For example, you cannot expect the straight line in Figure 7-4a (below
left) to be of the same degree as the pattern in Figure 7-4 (below right).
‘That is, of course, an obvious example. When a pattern covers several
‘months or several years, the Complexity Level can be very difficult to

ovo2se
