Extension Rule (the Litmus Test)

‘An Extension is an essential element of any reliable Impulse pattem
and is exclusively associated with them. The term Extension is used to
describe "the longest wave” in an Impulsive grouping, The presence (or
lack) of an Extended wave is the analytical "fork in the road," delineating
Impulsive from Corrective behavior. This test will virtually always
separate real Impulse patterns from imitations (Corrections).

By following all of the rules up to this point, you should be working
with a group of five monowaves (or higher, if your abilities have
increased). Among this group, one wave should be noticeably longer in
price than all the others. The longest wave willbe the Extension candidate
To actually qualify as an Extension, the longest wave should be at least
161.8% of the next longest wave (price-wise).

If a pattem has followed all of the Impulse rules up to the present,
including the Extension Rule, move on to the next section in this chapter to
verify whether the wave group meets further Impulsive requirements.
INOTE: If this testis passed, but you still feel the pattern is corrective
(based on severe retracement of the move by later market action or other
‘more subtle observations, which will be explained later), a wave hidden
in the price action may be the reason for the odd Corrective
construction (see Missing Waves, page 12-34).]

On the other hand, if any of the rules up to this point were not
followed, it would virtually guarantee the pattern is corrective with two
Important, but rare exceptions:

1. When the first segment in a pattern is the longest, it might be slightly
shorter than 161.8% of the third segment, but the third will not
Conclude higher than 61.8% beyond the end of the first.

2. When the third segment is the longest, but less than 161.8% of the
first, and the fifth segment is shorter than the third, there is the remote
possibility the market is forming an extremely rare Terminal Impulse
pattem variation (see Terminal Impulse, Wave-3 Extended, page 11-
6).

‘When the Extension Rule is broken, and neither of the two above
exceptions is unfolding, the market is absolutely experiencing a
Correction; proceed to the "Corrections" section. If one of the above two

000179
