move on to step-c, etc. Continue returning to step-b until you have
‘numerous compacted patterns each marked with a single Structure
Label. These single Structure Labels will eventually form identical
Series just as the monowave groups once did. The only difference,
each Structure Series will be representing a polywave (or higher)
instead of a monowave. All the Rules discussed up until now, and
throughout the book, will work for these more complex patterns in
the same fashion as they did for the simple formations (except
‘where noted). Work with the compacted Series’ just as if they were
monowave Structure Labels. Look for Series combinations, apply
the "Rule of Similarity", etc. The only additional step necessary in
‘working with the more complex pattern is to check for and follow
the Rules under the "Construction of Complex Polywaves,
Multiwaves ete."

‘The compacted Structure Labels should be placed on your charts which
cover a period of time longer than the original monowave chart. On your
longer-term chart, only mark the single Structure of each compacted
polywave, do not bother with each individual monowave's Structure.

‘The Wave Theory is a relative phenomenon. It does not matter how
complex or simple a pattern is; what matters is whether the pattern is
Corrective or Impulsive in nature. That will tell you how to handle,
combine, interpret and trade market action.

Until the market reaches the end of a Series, guessing on the proper
Progress Labels which apply is just tha, a guess. You do not have to know
the Progress Labels of a wave pattern to trade it profitably! Trade with the
trend which, based on the Wave Theory, is in the direction of the "5's"
(Impulsions). Until you have atleast three or five Structure Labels to work
‘ith, itis impossibie to complete an Elliott pattern and thus impossible to
be completely certain of the name of the pattern actually unfolding,

In conclusion, you should not have any preconceived notions of a
‘markets’ future behavior. The only objective way to analyze a market is to
stay strictly with previously determined wave Structure and only combine
the patterns when an identifiable Series is complete and when the pattem
‘meets all important criteria. Do not waste time trying to continually guess,
and trade on, what you think isthe current position ofthe market.

Flexibility of "Progress" Labels (expansion of a

000339
