corganizes the seemingly random flow of market price action into
identifiable, predictable patterns based on the natural progression of crowd
psychology.

Individuals behave in certain ways depending on their current opinions
and feelings. When elated, that individuals actions will invariably be
distinctly different from the same individuals actions when depressed. Just
the way one person can feel excited or concerned about his or her personal
future, the same feelings can permeate and be manifested by society.
‘When a majority of people have similar feelings (favorable, unfavorable,
Indifferent) about their, or society's, prospects for the future, their
cumulative action unfolds in predictable pattems. In addition, the same
‘way an individual can change his or her mind over time (occasionally in an
instant), so can the crowd. The Crash of 1987 was a good example of an
almost universal, "instant" change in the crowd's opinion of the stock
‘market and the future of the United States economy.

Once a certain psychological mood has run its course, people tend to
get bored with an idea or concept (sometimes financially ruined by them),
0 they grab onto new ideas. I is this changing from one mood to the next
that terminates one psychological trend (price pattern) and begins another.

Natural, Non-Periodic Phenomenon

‘The amount of time consumed by a specific pan-societal mood appears
to have no absolute minimum or maximum time requirement, but there are
general limits. By analyzing previously completed patterns and applying
Certain principles of time behavior, itis possible to approximate the best
time periods for completion of a formation. These techniques, many of
‘which I have developed over the last ten years, will be discussed in later
chapters.

‘The "structure" of market movement should almost always supersede
time observations. Some people consider this an annoying aspect of the
‘Theory since they want to know "when" to make a trade, in advance!
Elliott virtually proves that absolute anticipation of market movement is
impossible. The greatest degree of predictability occurs immediately after
a move has terminated. In other words, you wait for a pattern to complete,
then you take action.

000002
