implemented (progress to Rule 7, Condition "a" of
the Pre-Constructive Rules of Logic*)

If m0 is at least 100%. hut less than 161.8% of mi,
then the properties of Rule 7b take effect (move to
Rule 7, Condition "b” ofthe Pre-Constructive Rules
of Logic*)..

Condition "c" ~ If m0 is between 161.8% and 261.8% of m1
(inclusive), Rule 7¢ must be applied (advance to
Rule 7, Condition "c" of the Pre-Constructive Rules
of Logic*).

If m0 is more than 261.8% of m1, then Rule 74 is
activated; make note of that at the end of m1 (jump
to Rule 7, Condition “a” of the Pre-Constructive
Rules of Logic*).

Condition "

Condition "

When you have completed the Rule identification process for the
current m1, move to the next monowave in the sequence (which previously
was m2), make that monowave the new ml and restart the Rule
identification process from that new point. If you have identified all of the
'monowaves on your chart which you feel are important at this time,
proceed to the "Pre-Constructive Rules of Logic” heading and begin
transforming the Rules at the end of each monowave into usable Structure
labels.

Graphical Summary of Retracement Rules

After becoming familiar with the ideas presented in this section, the
diagrams on the next two pages should simplify the, Rule and Condition
identification process for you. To implement, first measure m2's
retracement of m1 in percentage terms, then find that retracement value
within one of the relational ranges along m2's ray under the Rule
Identification diagram (since m2 occurs after m1 in time, m2's ray extends
to the right), Jot down the abbreviated Rule which is activated by that
retracement range. Once a Rule has been identified, the conditions which
surround m1 should be clarified. Move to the Condition Identification
diagram specifically designed for the Rule currently in effect. This time
the ray will represent m0 (the wave before m1), therefore it extends to the
left. Locate the alphabetic Condition associated with the relational value

ov00ss
