and below the previous day's high and low. This creates a dilemma. Proper
analysis requires you know which of the two (the high or the low) came
first to make a decision on whether price action is continuing as it should
or deviating from the assumed path, indicating changes in opinion are
necessary. Therefore, bar charts should be avoided when employing Elliot
Wave Theory. Reasons for this will become clearer as you progress
through the book.

Futures Charts

Futures charts present a unique problem to the application of the Wave
‘Theory. They contain an element of “deterioration.” When dealing with
distant Futures contracts in most commodities, the Cash market trades well
below the Futures price. As expiration of the Futures contract draws near,
the Futures price will approach the cash and, for most markets, will be
equal at expiration. Occasionally, supply and demand factors in some of
the agricultural commodities can create severe imbalances which prevent
the Futures from equaling the cash at expiration, As carrying charges and
other costs are subtracted from the Futures contract on a daily basis, a
Continuous and gradual price erosion occurs during the life of the contrac.

‘Over a period of time, the inherent price distortion in a Futures market
can wreak havoc with longterm wave analysis. In addition, some Futures
‘markets (due to limited public participation) are susceptible to intentional
or accidental manipulation by "strong hands" (well capitalized individuals
Cr groups). Again, this can create great difficulty in deciphering an Elliot
Wave pattem.

Cash Data (the proper data for the creation of wave charts)

Manipulation of a true cash market is far more difficult than a Futures
‘market and requires much more capital (due to a lack of leverage) and time
to initiate. Therefore, the return on investment is less when attempting to
‘manipulate a Cash market. Additionally, a Cash position is not as liquid as
a Futures position. The result, manipulation of a Cash market is seldom
attempted or successful

‘The Wave Theory requires a large degree of public involvement
(which generally precludes or greatly hinders any manipulation potential)

ovo0a
