Pre-Constructive Rules of Logic

‘The purpose of the “Pre-Constructive Rules of Logic” section is to
provide Structure Labels to replace the Rules you established earlier for
each analyzed monowave, All Rules (including their Condition Identifiers)
are listed over the next 26 pages. Under each Rule are numerous
paragraphs separated into retracement values based on the length of m0,
m2 or m3. These paragraphs query you on circumstances unfolding in real-
time on your chart. Based on your input regarding market conditions,
specific suggestions will be made on the most appropriate Structure
Label(s) for each monowave and a guess is usually made on the most
likely Elliott pattern unfolding around ml. These Structure labels indicate
all possible locations a monowave can occur within an Elliott Wave
pattem (simple or complex). Sometimes it is recommended a Structure
label be surrounded by parentheses or brackets. If this situation develops
(on your real-time chart, those Structure labels in brackets represent rare or
extremely unlikely possibilities. Structure labels surrounded by
parentheses simply have a lower probability of being correct than those
‘hich possess no encasement (i.e., no parentheses or no brackets).

To understand and make complete use of Chapter 3, at least a cursory
knowledge of all chapters from 1 through 8 (inclusive) is required. If you
are still in the early stages of your Elliott Wave learning curve, many
concepts and techniques (not as yet explained) will be suggested for use in
this section which you do not understand completely or have no working
knowledge of. For this reason, become familiar with these other chapters
before attempting any analysis which is backed by capital investment. The
Elliott Wave Theory is such a maze of interlocking, interdependent
concepts that an understanding of only portions of the Theory is
insufficient for accurate forecasting. The inherently complex nature of the
Wave Theory makes it impossible to confidently apply the prognosticative
techniques discussed in this section without some awareness of the general
principles which guide wave pattern development.

After reading the book through the end of Chapter 8, return to Chapter
3 and begin the analysis process; you will then be better equipped to
understand and apply the ideas presented. For those till becoming familiar
with general Elliott Wave concepts, this section is designed to speed your

ov00ss
