wave of an Impulse pattern or an Elongated c-wave of a Flat or Zigzag.
After a Running Correction is complete, the market should commence
with the next Impulse wave; it should not continue to form a more
complicated Double orTriple Three. The Impulse wave after a Running
Correction should be more than 161.8% of the previous Impulse wave;
frequently it is 261.8% or more .

Double Three Running Correction

This isa pattern which seems to cause more confusion and controversy
than any other. The funniest part of this story is that a Double Three
Running is virtually never interpreted correctly. During their formation,
some Elliotticians count this pattern as a series of I's and 2's. Some will
interpret it as a Terminal Impulse pattern. Some will call it a complex
Correction such as a Double Zigzag, The most important aspect of
correctly deciding between all of these unrelated formations is wave
Structure (:3 or 5). Strict adherence to Structure is an area many analysts
tend to overlook. They casually put together an interpretation based on
general shape and appearances, not on concrete structural evidence. To foil
this less diligent group, there are patterns which can Emulate the
appearance of other patterns causing drastic errors in judgment.
Fortunately, close attention to detail will usually reveal the correct
interpretation. Channeling is another Key to avoiding the misinterpretation
of this pattern (see page 12-2)

The move after a Double Three Running correction must be Impulsive.
This Impulsion should exceed 161.8% of the previous Impulse wave, More
than 261.8% is common. Basically, the only place this pattern will occur is
as wave-2; furthermore, the formation almost always concludes with a
Triangle,

Triple Three Running Correction

‘This formation is incredibly rare and for good reason. The power built
up by a Double Three Running Correction is so great it is unrealistic to
expect the market t0 continue to postpone the day of reckoning,
Remember, a market never develops beyond the Triple Three Corrective
phase; as a result, the market cannot "continue creating x-waves

000382
