completely retrace the length of m1. Ifthe two numbers are equal or if mi
is a larger number, the statement above is true. If m2, after such
proceedings, is a larger number than mi, the statement above would be
false

‘The greatest technical and analytical value is derived from this section
‘when the Rules are applied to monowaves. When returning to this section
for reassessment of a confirmed, Compacted Elliott pattern, the primary
purpose in applying the Rules is to detect the presence of “missing” waves.
During this reassessment, if none of the conditions listed (under the
appropriate section) agree with the base Structure of the compacted
pattem, the compacted pattem might be missing a wave (page 12-34
discusses this phenomenon). Encase those choices which do not agree with
the base Structure of the compacted pattern within squares. This provides
you with a warning which should only be taken seriously if it is later
found that the compacted pattern cannot be adjoined acceptably to any
surrounding monowaves or wave groups. During reassessment, if you find
that the Structure labels suggested by this section do not allow you to
Connect the compacted pattern with surrounding price action, assume the
pattern is part of a Complex formation. If trying to reassess a compacted
pattem and you find none of the conditions listed under the appropriate
section apply to the pattern, place all Structure labels listed next to the
Rule heading and encase those labels which disagree with the base
‘Structure of the pattern within squares.

‘At the beginning of each Rule section, the chart used during the Rule
Identification process earlier has been duplicated for your convenience. It
will probably help to glance at these diagrams as you read the directions,
comparing your real-time chart with the prescribed action, The first
sentence of each of the paragraphs to follow is the most important. If the
conditions described in the first sentence are not reflected in the actual
market action, move on to the next paragraph (unless otherwise directed).
If the first sentence of a paragraph accurately describes the market action
you are analyzing, always read the rest of the entire paragraph. Some of
the sentences which follow are very lengthy and contain many conditions.
Usually, all parameters enumerated in one sentence must be adhered to for
the Structure list to apply. Carefully read each sentence while comparing
the statements to your chart and apply those Structure labels to the end of
those monowaves which it directs you to. Sometimes you will be trying to
analyze m1, but the section will direct you to place Structure or Progress

ovo102
