are “self-descriptive." Postriangular action in a Limiting Triangle i
dictated by the width of the widest leg ofthe Triangle and the placement of
the apex point created by the converging trendlines which form the
‘Triangle.* These two factors provide a reliable price/time window which
readily verify (or nullify) a Limiting Triangle's validity. If the Triangle
being analyzed is truly Limiting, the market action after the thrust should
return to the breakout point and will usually exceed it.

Depending on the slope of the trendlines which encase the Triangle,
the thrust could be as much as 261.8% of the widest leg of the Triangle
(added to the end of wave-e) or as little as 75%. The thrust should
terminate almost exactly into the time period (not price level) where the
converging trendlines crossed, creating the apex point. If all indications are
that the Triangle is a b-wave or a 4th wave, but the postthrust action has
not retumed to the breakout point or beyond and the market action has
exceeded the original thrust’ highest or lowest price level, there must be a
Terminal pattern forming (applies to both situations) or an x-wave
unfolding (only applies if the Triangle is a b-wave).

If working with a Limiting B-wave Triangle and the “post-thrust”
action does not exceed the breakout point shortly after the apex time zone
is reached, an x-wave is probably forming after the thrust.

Horizontal

‘The thrust out of the Triangle should be approximately equal to the
widest wave of the Triangle, plus or minus 25%. This Triangle variation
Jmplies normal market conditions.

b. Irregular

‘Since the b-wave in one of these patterns exceeds the end of wave-a, it
implies the pattern is more powerful than a Horizontal (in either price
direction) The thrust out of this variation can be as much as 161.8% of the
widest leg of the Triangle.

¢. Running

This is the most powerful Triangular pattern, The thrust can be as
much as 261.8% of the widest leg. Market conditions are unusually strong

000385
