How is This Knowledge Used to Analyze?

‘The most important aspect of identifying Impulsive or Corrective
monowaves is that it allows you the ability to deduce the trend of a
particular market. With a comprehensive understanding of all the rules and
factors which influence wave patterns, itis possible to predict the distance
a move will travel and approximately how long it will take. You can also
accurately describe the psychological environment which should unfold
uring the development of the predicted pattern. Even more useful and
impressive, an accurate view of current action can frequently allow you to
predict market action on a day-to-day basis with precision accuracy.
Finally, through the process of Compaction (explained in Chapter 7), you
can derive larger and larger trends to be taken advantage of.

* Determining when a pattern has completed, to most beginners, is
perceived as picking top or bottom tick in a market and is the assumed key
to making money in the markets. Always trading with the intent of only
getting in at top or bottom tick is a very dangerous habit and is not the way
large amounts of money are made in this game. Profits can usually be
‘made faster and safer when entering right before a markets acceleration
phase. This usually takes place wel after the high or low in the market has
‘occurred. In addition, it is generally very important to let the market
confirm (even if only in the smallest way) a change in trend has occurred
before entering a position. By demanding confirmation before entering a
market, you can almost always eliminate the possibility of getting caught
oon the wrong side of a "gap" opening. Also, if your attention is strictly
focused on short-term or overnight trading, large patterns which have been
forming for months or years can unwind ovemight, creating panic "gap"
openings. (A "gap" opening occurs when the market opens substantially
higher or lower than the previous day's close and usually indicates the
‘opening is outside of the previous day's trading range.) The Silver market
experienced one of these openings two days in a row in mid-April 1987.
The "gap" was so large on both days that the market opened "up-the-limit”
preventing anyone from exiting the market who was short from the
previous day. Wrongly positioned in just one such situation can eliminate
an entire year's worth of trading profits (assuming you had a profit to lose).

ovoo4s
