benefits of the Theory’s multi-area application are obvious.
Numerous Techniques Unnecessary

‘When incorporating Elliot's original rules and observations with the
Neely Method and the new techniques revealed in this book, you have at
your disposal a virtually all encompassing description of market behavior
and how to decipher it. This allows you to know, under most
circumstances, a great deal about the current position of a market without
any information other than price action. You will not need to keep track of
‘numerous time consuming (and sometimes subjective) indicators.

Remember, no matter how good a mechanical system or indicator
works during a particular period in history, the minute the pattern (which
‘was unfolding during the formation of the system) completes, that system
or indicator will usually not work anymore. The environment in which it
‘was designed to perform so perfectly no longer exists and (according to the
Wave Theory) will never exist again.

Helpful in Indicator Clarification

If you decide to use other indicators (outside of Elliot) to "clarify"
‘wave counts, the Wave Theory is actually instructive in qualifying where
and when a particular indicator does and does not work.

Example:

Readings of investor sentiment normally indicate a significant market
tuming point only when in overbought or oversold territory (usually
considered to be around 75% and 35%, respectively). A comprehensive
understanding of Elliott pattems allowed me to recognize in 1986 and
1987 that sentiment could oscillate around neutral readings even if a major
‘market turning point was forming. This was a logical deduction based on
an understanding of Horizontal Triangles and Terminal patterns (ex. Gold
Jan.-June 1986 and S & P 500 Jan. Sept. 1987). When most were confused
by the lack of public excitement generated during the 1987 stock market
advance, I constantly warned clients that was a sign a Terminal Impulse
wave (diagonal triangle) started in the last quarter of 1986 and would
portend a crash, in three months or less, back to 1900 on the DOW and
230 on the S&P 500 Cash Index

000006
