Conditional Construction Rules

‘There is a great deal of difference between market action which does
not break any of the Essential Impulse Construction rules and an actual
impulse pattern. The Essential Impulse Construction rules, discussed a few
headings back, are for general application to aU Impulse wave patterns.
‘They are the first rules to employ on market action believed to be
Impulsive in nature. Ifa single "Essential" rule is broken, there is no need
to proceed to the next stage of Impulse examination. Automatically
assume the pattern is Corrective, or you have started your analysis from an
improper point in the count, or all of the monowaves involved in the
sequence are not ofthe same degree (for details, see "Degree," page 5-12).
If you are following along with your own real-time price chart, al the rules
after this point will be dependent on the Progress Labels you recently
placed on your wave patter,

Rule of Alternation

The concept of Alternation is one of the most important, guiding
influences on market action and is at the very foundation of the Wave
Principle. Without it, the Theory would be basically useless. It applies to
virtwally all aspects of application (for additional information on
Alteration, see page 8-19).

‘The Rule states that: when adjacent or alternate waves of the same
Degree are compared, they should be distinctive and unique in as many
ways as possible. The major, deciding factor in the full manifestation of
the rule is time. The greater the time period covered by each formation, the
‘more complete, in all respects, the Alternation between the two formations
will become. There are many ways Alteration can occur. Regarding
[Impulse patterns, the most important application of the Rule of Alternation
is to its "counter trend’ phases (ie., waves 2 & 4). If and when you find
the market is unfolding in a Corrective manner, the Rule best applies to
waves A & B. The possible types of Alteration, which should always be
considered in every formation, ae as follows:

f 1

oooisa
