Non-Standard Type

‘The presence of a Non-Standard formation is only possible if there are
at least two Corrective polywave pattems (compacted to their base
Structure of *:3") which are separated by a monoor polywave corrective
phase. These base Structure labels serve the same combining function they
did for monowaves in Chapter 4, to assist you in the proper grouping of
adjacent wave patterns.

Due to the more elaborate design of polywaves (relative to
monowaves), they can interrelate with other polywaves in ways not
possible at the monowave level. For example, to detect the intemal
Structure of a monowave requires observing how much surrounding
market action retraces it, On the other hand, when working with
polywaves, the Structure is already known; there is no need to wait for a
reaction. This fact brings up additional interaction possibilities which are
covered below.

Additional Retracement Rules

If you are following along with your own chart and see a confirmed,
Compacted Corrective polywave which is retraced less than 61.8%, or
‘more than 161.8% by the next monowave or Corrective polywave, and
then another Corrective polywave occurs immediately thereafter, refer to
the "*Specifications*" section below for an explanation of what such an
arrangement could mean and how to solidify such a grouping into a
legitimate Elliot formation,

If neither of the above relational circumstances is present in your
polywave grouping, the grouping should be considered of Standard
design. If that is the case for your wave group, go to the "Standard"
heading on page 8-1, then move on to the Intermediary Observations
chapter. Work with your polywave group as if it were a monowave group;
all the same Rules and procedures apply. The size of, or time consumed
by, a wave group has virtually no effect on how it is analyzed. Wave
patterns lasting several years will still subdivide into Flats, Triangles,
Impalsions, etc. In working with such large patterns, Structure Labels are
the key to maintaining analytical perspective and formational integrity.

000279
