Pattern Isolation Procedures

If there are no ":L5's" or ":L3's" on your chart, keep updating the price
action each day applying the Retracement and Pre-Constructive Rules until
there is a wave with only an ":L5" of ":L3" (or both) attached. Once an

LS" or ":L3" has been identified, the Pattern Isolation Procedures can
be initiated, From the far left of your chart, begin a forward search for the
first wave which contains only an ":LS" or an ":L3" or both; when you
have found the first occurrence, circle the end of that wave (see Figure 3-
31), itwill probably be the end of an Eliott pattern. [The wave just circled
will usually be followed by a significant, maybe even violent, market move
in a relatively short period of time. Be on the look out for such activity; it
is a reliable indication of recent Elliot pattern termination] By applying
the Position Rules and techniques discussed in this section, that circled
‘wave will now assist you in identifying the start of an Elliott pattern,

From the circled point, move backward three Structure labels. If that
new wave contains only one label and it is one of the following, ":F3,
x:€3, :L3, :85 oF :L5," stop there; you may have found the beginning of an
Elliott Wave pattern. If the third wave back possesses more than one
Structure label, or the single Structure label which it does possess is not
‘one of those listed above, continue moving backward one wave at a time
nti you find a wave with a single Structure possiblity which is one of
those listed above. When you finally find a wave which meets the above
requirements and itis an * :F3," circle the beginning of that wave; if it is
an "x:c3, :L3, :85 or :L5," circle the end of that wave (refer to Figure 3-32
for a demonstration of this process). Later, after a pattern has been tested
and proven to be legitimate, the circles encasing the pattem should be
tumed into dots (darkened). Since all Elliott patterns require an odd
number of waves to complete, count the number of waves between the
two circled points. If an even number of waves is present, co
moving backward in search of another ":F3, x:c3, :L3, 35 or :L5.
‘dd number of waves is present, you can proceed to the next page.

Figure 3-31

000182
