As an analyst, trader or investor, you will need to decide which time
frame is best suited to your needs. If you decide one figure a day is all you
would like to deal with, you are also deciding the type of move you are
interested in is one that lasts several weeks to a few months. You will not
be able to day-trade following only one figure per day, obviously. To
arrive at one figure per day for a continuously traded cash market, add the
extreme (real) high and low together and divide by two (2). Plot as
described in "How Do You Plot Data,” which immediately follows. If you
want a little more daily detail by using two figures a day, there are two
choices. You can divide the day in two equal parts and take the average of
the high and low for each session or you can use the high and low for the
entire day and plot them in the order they occurred (this last approach is
the best). That is, ifthe high of the day came first, reserve it for the first
time slot of the two slot day and plot the low second (or vice versa).

‘There is a small problem with plotting real-high low readings that are
available for cash market indices based on underlying stocks. Not all
stocks open at the same time. The practice of most exchanges is to
calculate the opening from the few stocks which are open early in the
‘morning with the previous days closes of all stocks not open during early
trading, This forces the cash market to always open approximately where it
Closed the previous day even if the Futures price "gaps" at the opening, By
using averages, you basically eliminate any significant distortion created
by this form of tabulating. Without any adjustment, correctly using a cash
Index’s “reat” high/low plot often exhibits horizontal price movement
(during the opening period) even when the Futures market opens hundreds
of points higher or lower. The only way to avoid this situation is to drop
the first 10 to 15 minutes of the trading day from the recorded data, then
calculate the high and low for the day. This way you are usually assured
‘most stocks are open and the openings (not the previous day's closes) are
part ofthe current reading.

3. The last situation of concern when plotting data isin reference to
24-hour markets; markets not just traded here in the U.S., but those which
Continue to trade around the clock on virtually every exchange in the
world. Currency markets are a perfect example of a situation, How do you
property keep track of such markets?

‘Over a period of time, I experimented with plotting the cash markets of
Gold, Silver, Australian S/U.S.$ and the Swiss FranciAustralian $ in
different ways. When these markets were plotted using data available only

ov004s
