335 Flas (all variations, exept Elongated)
33333 Triangles (Contacting Now-Limting onl)

132 This series (most inlided to get your attention) represents a Crective monowave which
fan bean Xewave in "simple" Double ad Triple pater. Keep in ind, waves ae almost
Sway the smallest Core ates (ime-wise) ofa complexfomation wheter oro hey
tre larger or slr inpice coverage thn the previows Comecton.

‘When dhe Xewave shore than te previous corrective phase and is not one ofthe above
puters its Construction limited to Non-Standad Category 2 paters (ae Chapter 10, the
over Ranking diagram, [Asa reminder, propery associate a complex Xewave wit the
previous Coretion, make sre the LOGIC Res ae followed for prope integration of market
section)

b. Complex Correction With Large X-Wave(s)

‘When the X-wave of a Complex formation is larger than the previous
Correction (price-wise), the entire formation will be categorized as a
Double or Triple Three pattern. Listed below are the Nonstandard wave
patterns, along with their names and compacted wave Structures, in which
the X-wave is larger than the previous Corrective phase (in the listing, ct.
"Contracting Triangle only!"),

1.635)+ (wave) +3333, ct
2.35)-+ (wave) * @-3.5) = Double Tree =
3. 35)-+ (wave) * G35) + (eave) “(833-33 ) = Triple Three Com,
4.635) (wave) +835) + (wave) +(835)=Teple The

Double Tree Cmbintion= 3 Fig.89

10
en
en

‘The Non-Standard wave pattems listed above are in order of most to
least likely. Triple Threes, as mentioned earlier, should be considered rare.
‘When you see one of these pattems, it probably will be constructed like
‘one of the two variations listed on page 8-15.

Review
Once you have decided whatNon:Standard wave pattern variation the
‘market has formed, detour to the Logic Rules chapter and check the lst of
attributes associated with that particular formation. Examine the "realistic
diagrams in the Non-Standard section to see ifthe pattern you are working
with resembles the one in the book. Remember, exact correlations are not
only unnecessary, but very improbable, Afterward, move on to the
Conclusion chapter to finalize your assessment.

ovozs2
