any consistency. With larger patterns, analysis can become more difficult,
unless proper care has been taken to dissect each subsegment and classify
it as Corrective or Impulsive (:3 or :5). Even if itis currently not clear
which pattern a market is forming, adherence to past, provable price
“structure” is mandatory. Eventually, the Elliott pattem which has been
under formation all along will become obvious. This usually occurs as the
pattern approaches a conclusion

Locking in Structure

‘After having identified a reliable Elliott pattern, and then proceeding
through the process of Compaction, it is very important the simplified
Structure of the move (being just a :3 or :5) is not changed at some later
date. This would be a drastic mistake. Generally, you should never change
the Structure of a properly Compacted pattern. Often, you might be
tempted to do so in order to create an interpretation you would like to
believe is unfolding, but as a Rule, never do it

Contrary to what appears a common belief among Elliotticians and
especially the general public, the S tructure of a formation cannot be
legitimately changed at the whim of the analyst to suit current opinion,
market fundamentals, technical indicators, etc. Wave patterns develop
based on the net result ofall the buy and sell orders reaching the floor of
an exchange. Those buy and sell orders are sent to the floor by traders
around the country who are analyzing Fundamentals, “Technicals,
Astrological aspects, Volume, Open Interest, Bullish Sentiment, etc. Since
a market cannot move unless there is someone bidding to buy or someone
asking to sell (all other events notwithstanding), when the two come
together it creates an “official” supply/demand price level. As a result,
there is no disputing that price action is the net result of all external
market influences and therefore is the best indicator of future market
performance.

‘The level at which a market trades does not occur by chance. The trade
takes place because it satisfies both sides of the equation, the buyer and the
seller. Waves are the by-product of these transactions connected end-to-
end showing a continuous chain of events. Transforming the structure of a
pattern to fit what you feel is going on or because you are confused about
the market's position is a very poor reason to alter the previously
established "Structure" of a count. Changing previous wave "structure" to

000337
