of surrounding market action. Since two varieties of Structure labels exist
(those that contain Position Indicators and those that do not), specific
phrases representing each variety have to be coined to allow for accurate
and intelligible coverage ofthis subject. The phrase, "base Structure label,”
describes a Structure label which isnot preceded by a Position Indicator
(ie, solely a":3" or a:5" is present), A Structure label which is preceded
by a Position Indicator (ie., :F3, :¢3, 255, :L5, etc.) will be termed a
“positioned Structure label.” Inthe paragraphs to follow, if the Structure of
a pattern is not important, is unknown or bares no significance to the
discussion, the truncated phrase, "Structure Label,” will be used to
encompass both possibilities.

‘The Position Rules must be used whenever there are wave segments
which contain multiple Structure label possibilities. The use of Position
Indicators is the only way novice Ellioticians can properly piece together
reliable Wave pattems. Surprisingly, this same approach is used by expert
Elliott Wave analysts, but most have interalized the process (through
practice) to the point that they do not realize they are applying these
concepts; they probably do not even realize they are applying Elliott Wave
techniques in a standardized fashion the same approach presented in this
book.

‘The implementation of Position Indicators begins to intensify the
bonds between adjacent wave segments due to rules which guide Position
Indicator coexistence. They begin to exert a degree of order to the
seemingly random fluctuations of market action. Position Indicators are
the the next clarifying step toward unraveling current market action.

If you find a wave on your chart which possesses multiple Structure
label choices, the Position Indicators will be needed to simplify your
choices. These Indicators will assist you in eliminating all but one
Structure choice from mi’s list. Once all waves on your chart possess only
Cone Structure label, later in this chapter you will learn how to use these
Structure labels to isolate important beginning and ending points of Eliott
pattems. For those of you who have had difficulty in the past deciding
Where to start your analysis, this section will be the answer to your
prayers.

Directions
By the time you reach this section, the internal Structure of numerous.
'monowaves on your chart should have been established. Unfortunately, the

oo0143
