would a market not have enough data points to create an Elliot pattern!”
All analytical studies must be done within certain limitations. When you
‘want to do some analysis, you have to decide which market to observe,
you have to decide when to start you chart, what period of time the chart
‘will cover and what type of data will be used. Will it be yearly data (which
may be appropriate for real estate, farming or interest rates). Maybe the
study requires shorter-term information such as weekly or daily (which is
‘more appropriate for stock and commodity analysis). No matter what your
decision, it wll create limits; ether on the amount of market action visible
for analysis or on your time to analyze.

‘Whatever period of time you choose to monitor, there is usually
shorter-term price data available which would reveal further intricacies of
price action. When a pattern on a shorter-term chart completes, there may
(or may not be enough data points on the next larger chart for the same (but
Jess detailed) pattern to fully develop. When the complexity of a short-
term move exceeds the number of data points (time units) available to
form the same pattern on a longer term chart, a simplified version of the
same move, a monowave or a “missing wave" is unavoidable. An example
of a simplified version is a complex pattern turning into a simple pattern (a
Double Zigzag into a single Zigzag, see Figure 12-46). Or, if there is too
much time disparity between one chart and the next, then the complex
pattem on the short-term chart will appear as a monowave on the longer
term char. Ifthe time difference between charts is small, a "missing wave"
is virtually inevitable.

For our theoretical example, we have chosen the London Gold am/pm
fixes for our "longer-term" data and the continuously traded International
Gold Market as our shorter-term data. The London Fixes (the best way to
follow Gold, in my opinion) will provide us with two average Gold prices
per day. The international Cash market will allow us to monitor the
formation of super short-term Elliott patterns.

In Figure 12-47, there are two plots. One is of the am/pm Gold Fix, the
other of intraday cash Gold market data. ‘The light line is the IGM over
several days. The dot in the middle of each day and at the end of each day
represents the time when the London Fix was released. The dark line is
the London Gold fixes plotted separately and each connected with a
straight line. As you can plainly see, the IGM reveals an Impulse pattern
over the three-day period. The London data displays a pattem which
resembles a near perfect Zigzag; that is how a "missing wave" can occur.

ovoa7e
